Programs for manipulating GMT grd files. To make, edit the file called
Constants.mk in ~/.vs30/ directory and set the paths to the library 
directories for GMT and NetCDF, and for the include directory for GMT, 
then run make:

	% make

All of the programs in this directory use Rob Clayton's (Caltech)
getpar package. This package allows you to specify parameters on the
command line in the form "parameter=value". You can also put the 
parameters in a file (e.g., "mypars.par") and call the command with
the option "par=parfile" (e.g., "par=mypars.par"). Or you can mix
the parameters between a file and the command line. The advantage of 
the parfile form is that the parameter file can be a Makefile 
dependency, so changes will trigger reprocessing. 

The programs are:

smooth -- parameters: "infile" (string), "outfile" (string), "fx" (uint), 
"fy" (uint); applies an fx by fy boxcar averaging filter to the GMT .grd
file specified by infile and writes the output to a GMT .grd file given by
outfile. fx and fy are specified as an integer number of grid points.

insert_grd -- parameters: "grid1", "grid2", "gmask", "gout" (all strings, 
all GMT .grd files; grid1, grid2, and gmask must have the same resolution
and their grid points must be co-registered; grid2 and gmask must have 
identical sizes). Program embeds grid2 into grid1 using the weighted clipping
mask gmask, and writes the output to gout. grid1 must fit entirely within 
grid2. gmask should be 1 (one) where the value in grid2 is to replace the
value in grid1, 0 (zero) where the value in grid1 should be left alone.
Values in between 0 and 1 result in a weighted average of the values in 
grid1 and grid2:

	outval = w * g2 + (1 - w) * g1

where "w" is the weight from gmask, g1 is the value in grid1, and g2 is 
the value in grid2. The values in gmask must be in the range (inclusive)
from 0 to 1; values outside this range will result in undefined behavior.

grad2vs30 -- parameters: gradient_file, landmask_file, craton_file, 
output_file (all strings, all GMT .grd files), water (float); converts
topographic slope to Vs30 using Wald & Allen (2007) and Allen & Wald (2009).
The input files gradient_file, landmask_file, and craton_file must be the
same dimensions, same resolution, and with grid points co-registered.
gradient_file contains the (unitless, i.e., units-per-unit) topographic 
slope (usually created by using GMT's grdgradient program on a digital 
elevation model). landmask_file should be 1 (one) on land and 0 (zero)
over water (oceans, lakes, rivers, etc.); it is usually created with 
GMT's grdlandmask program. craton_file should be 1 (one) on stable
cratonic shields and 0 in active tectonic regions. Transition zones
are allowed, using values between 1 and 0 (as produced by the "smooth"
program, above) and result in a weighted average of the cratonic and
tectonic Vs30 models. The "water" value sets the Vs30 value used in
areas designated as water in the landmask (default=600).

